# Object-oriented programming

It is a programming paradigm based on the concept of objects.

We use objects to model real-world or abstract features.This objects contain data(properties) and code(methods). By using these objects which are self contained, we pack data and their behavior into one block.

These objects are building blocks of an application, and can interact with one another. These interaction happens through application programming interface(APIs).

## Classes and Instances

We already have the objects in javascript but we are using them as a loose collection data, without them interacting with one another and generating one programmatically.

So, in traditional OOP we use class which is like a blueprint or abstract of object and then we create instance or object from this class, this process is knows as instantiation.

## How to create this instances?

There are four fundamentals principle to design classes and their objects.

    1. Abstraction
    2. Encapsulation
    3. Inheritance
    4. Polymorphism

## Abstraction

This means to ignore or hide details that doesn't matter, allowing us to not mess with those which doesn't matter for our implementation and giving an overview perspective of the thing we are implementing.

e.g.: While designing a phone we implement many things like sensors, registers, etc. and how do they work but to us as a **User** all these things are abstracted because we don't need them an6dd on6l hve those which are essential like volume control, vibration, etc.

> Not just in OOP, but in many places abstraction in implemented like in DOM or a language which is going to be converted into a machine code.

## Encapsulation

Keeping methods and properties private inside a class, some methods are exposes as public and can be interacted.These private methods are critical for objects functionalities and allowing external interference to this methods can cause bug or might break the program.

## Inheritance

Here, one class can extend from another class like a admin class from a user class or a child class from a parent class. It makes all the public properties and methods accessible to child class. A child class can have its own methods and properties.

## Polymorphism

It means a child class can override the methods it inherited from the parent class.
