# Pure Functions

It is the pillar of functional programming.

**Two main things in pure functions**

1. It has to return same output for same input.
2. It cannot modify anything outside itself i.e, not side effects.

## 1. No side-effects

Let's see a demo for this:

e.g.: <code>
const arr=[1,2,3]

const removeFromArray=(arr)=>{

    arr.pop();

}

const addToArray=(arr)=>{

    arr.forEach(a=>arr.push(1))

}

removeFromArray(arr) //output: [1,2]

addToArray(arr) //output: [1,2,1,1]

</code>

As we seen above, a shared state (an array [1,2,3]) that can interact with anything and also order of functional calls matters, this can cause bugs. So how to rectify this.

We can create an array whose scope is limited to that function only.

e.g.: <code>

const arr=[1,2,3]

const removeFromArray=(arr)=>{

    const newArr=[].concat(arr);
    newArr.pop();
    return newArr;

}

const addToArray=(arr)=>{

    const newArr=[].concat(arr);
    newArr.forEach(a=>newArray.push(1))
    return newArr;

}

console.log(removeFromArray(arr)) //output: [1,2]

console.log(addToArray(arr)) //output: [1,2,3,1,1,1]

console.log(arr) //output: [1,2,3]

</code>

Above code has no side effects

## 2. Referential Transparency

Given the same input/s the function should always return the same output.

e.g.: <code>

cost add=(n1,n2)=>{
return n1+n2;
}

console.log(add(3,4)) //output: 7

</code>

Even if we call the **add(3,4)** any number of time it always gives the output **7**. So this is called referential transparency,for same input/s it always gives the same output.

Let's look at another example:

e.g.:
<code>

cost add=(n1,n2)=>{
return n1+n2;
}

const multi=(n)=>{
return n\*2;
}

console.log(multi(add(3,4))) //output: 14

console.log(multi(7)) //output: 14
</code>

In the above example, even if we call **multi(add(3,4))** or **multi(7)** any number of times it always gives the same output. The functions add and multiply are not using parameters from outside world but instead using their own parameters.This make function easy to test, very easy to compose and minimize bugs.
