# Idempotence

The idea behind is that function always does or return what we expect it to do.Like deleting user from a database, getting a random number, etc.

The idea behind idempotence is that this idea is important in parallel and distributed computing, it makes code predictable.

e.g.:<code>
function a(n){
return Math.abs(n);
}

console.log(a(-5)) //ouput: 5

</code>

No matter how many times we call the above function with -5 as argument, it will always return 5 as the result

---

# Imperative vs Declarative

In short, imperative code tells machine what to do and how to do it whereas declarative code tells machine what to do and what should happen.

e.g.: A computer is a imperative it needs instructions to do something but humans are declarative like asking someone _What is the time?_ or _Please give me a glass of water._, we not need to pass the instructions like pick up the jug of water, pour it in the glass, etc. but they know that should be the final result and how to achieve it.

Higher level languages are generally declarative, we pass them the instructions like declaring the variable, or looping but it low level languages they are imperative.Frameworks and libraries like React, Vue are declarative whereas DOM, or custom API's in Node.js are imperative.

Functional programming helps us in writing declarative code.

> At the end, every declarative is converted into a imperative code(Machine code).

# Immutability

It means not changing a state but making copies of the state and returning that copy. In functional programming, it is a very important concept, we can use outside data inside a function but cannot mutate it.

e.g.: <code>
const obj1={name:"John"};

function clone(obj){
return {...obj};
}

//obj1.name = "Jane";
//console.log(clone(obj1)); //output: {name:"Jane"} _This will mutate the data_

function update(obj){
const obj2=clone(obj);
obj2.name = "Jane";
return {...obj2};
}

const updateObj=update(obj);
console.log(updateObj); //output: {name:"Jane"} _This achieves immutability_

</code>

We can  observe that copying data over and over again is not very memory efficient, a concept called structural sharing is implemented in this i.e., only the changes are copied and the things not changed are still there.
