## OOP in JavaScipt

OOP in javascript is different from the traditional OOP. The theoretical OOP is class based whereas the OOP in javascript is **prototype based**.

In javascript, all objects are linked to a respective prototype. This prototype objects contains methods and properties so that all the objects linked to that prototype can inherit those and this inheritance is known as prototypal inheritance.

This inheritance is different from traditional inheritance where a class is inherited from another class but here a instance is inheriting from a object or prototype.

> Prototypal inheritance is also knows a **delegation** since objects delegated their behavior to the prototype whereas in traditional inheritance child class inherits methods and properties from parent class.

e.g.: We are already using delegation many times in javascript.

<code>
const nums=[1,2,3]

num.map(n=>n\*2);

</code>

If you visit the MDN docs for arrays in javascript, you should see that array methods have **Array.prototype.** in front of them like Array.prototype.map() or Array.prototype.push(). This Array.prototype() is the prototype objects for all the arrays in JavaScript and it contains all the methods in it. So the our array **nums** does not have map method on itself but instead delegating the map method to Array.prototype

## How to implement OOP in JavaScript

In javascript, there are three ways to implement OOP:

1. Constructor functions

   1. Where objects are created using functions.
   2. The original way to create objects in JavaScript.

2. ES6 Classes

   1. The abstraction or syntactic sugar of class based syntax in javascript.
   2. Behind the scenes it works like constructor functions and does not behave like traditional OOP classes.

3. Object.create()
   1. Not used frequently but the easiest way to create objects.

> The four principles of traditional OOPS are still valid in JavaScript OOP.
