# Encapsulation

It essentially means to keep certain methods and properties of the class hidden and inaccessible from the user. It can be taken as a Data privacy step.

In javascript there is not a true data encapsulation. So, to fake the encapsulation developers made a convention that the protected properties and methods will start with **underscore**.

e.g.:
<code>

class Person{
constructor(firstname,lastname){

this.firstname=firstname;
this.lastname=lastname

}
}

class Student extends Person{

    constructor(firstname,lastname, rollNo,_marks){
        super(firstName,lastName);
        this.rollNo=rollNo;
        this._marks=_marks;
    }

}

</code>

Private and Public keywords are actually implements in javascript. This is the new class feature for the OOPS in Javascript. So there are now four fields and methods in javascript OOPS i.e,:

1. Private fields
2. Public fields
3. Private methods
4. Public methods

Like the OOPS in class based languages, the fields and methods are public by default.

e.g.:
<code>

class Person{
constructor(firstname,lastname){

this.firstname=firstname;
this.lastname=lastname

}
}

class Student extends Person{

    course="" //public field
    #marks=[] //private field
    #hey;

    constructor(firstname,lastname, rollNo,hey){
        super(firstName,lastName);
        this.rollNo=rollNo;
        this.#hey=hey;

    }

    getMarks(){
        return this.#marks
    }

    #backAccountNo(){
        return this.#bankAccountNo;
    }

}

</code>

The private fields in javascript starts with **#** keyword. The public and private fields are defined for the instance not the prototype.

Public methods are same as that of normal methods inside classes.But the private methods also starts with **#** keyword.

> Note: There is also a static version for all this 4 fields and methods.
