# Functions

One of the essential concept of javascript.

A function is a piece of code which can be used over and over in our code, where a variable is a single value a function is a chunk of code. It can receive a data, can transform a data then can return a data.

e.g.: <code>
function add(a,b){

    console.log(a+b);

}
</br>
add(4,5) //output: 9
</code>

In the above example, we can see that a function is defined with a name **add** and the definition is written inside a parentheses. Then later a function is **invoked** or **called**. And this process can be used many times in our code.

---

> The function is used so that we can reuse a line/s of code. Also the function not only can reuse the line/s of code but can also receive values and return values.

e.g.: <code>
function fruits(fruit1,fruit2){

return `I have brought 3 ${fruit1} and 2 ${fruit2}`

}

console.log(fruits("apples", "oranges")) //output: I have brought 3 apples and 2 oranges
</code>

In the above code, a function fruits is defined which takes values fruit1 and fruit2, they are called function parameters and return a string. The returned value then can be used anywhere in the code . The returned value can be printed on the console using the console.log() statement.A function can only execute one return statement then after that it will exit that function.

The variable can also be used to get the value returned by the function.

e.g.: <code>
const val=fruits("apples","oranges")

console.log(val) //output: I have brought 3 apples and 2 oranges

</code>

> Not add functions need to take parameters nor not all functions need to return value. It we try to print the value of function which is not returning anything then it will return undefined.

e.g.: <code>

function print(){

console.log("Hello")

}

console.log(print()) //output: undefined

</code>

Therefore, in short the function is more maintainable code, so they follow DRY principle (DO NOT REPEAT YOURSELF)

> In above discussion you can observe that console.log() is also a function but a built-in function.

---

## Function calling other functions

In javascript, a function can called another function inside its defination.

e.g.: <code>
const cutToPieces=function(piece){
return piece;
}

function fruits(fruit1,fruit2){

const piece1=cutToPieces(3)
const piece2=cutToPieces(4)

return `I have brought ${piece1} ${fruit1} pieces and ${piece2} ${fruit2}`

}

console.log(fruits("apples", "oranges")) //output: I have brought 3 apples pieces and 4 oranges pieces.
</code>

Data flow of the above program is like this: when the console.log() function is called, inside the fruits piece1 and piece2 would invoke the **cutToPieces** function and that values will replace the placeholders in the return value of **fruits** return value.

> It is very common in javascript, that a function is calling another function.
