# Array

It is a data structure to store bundle of values. They can be of same data type or different data types.

Along with Object, Array is the most important data structure in JavaScript.

e.g.: <code>

const friends=["Harry","Sally","Manny"]

console.log(friends) //output: ["Harry","Sally","Manny"]

</code>

There is also an another way to create an array with new keyword.

e.g.: <code>

const years=new Array(2000,2001,2002,'2003')

</code>

> The first method to create an array is called literal syntax and is way more usual to create an array.

## Access array values

In javascript, arrays are **'0'** based, so a bracket notation is used to get their values.

e.g.:<code>

console.log(years[2]) //output: 2002

</code>

## Mutate an array

Array bracket notation is used to mutate an array.

e.g.:<code>

years[2]=2020

console.log([2000,2001,2002,'2003'])

</code>

> In the above examples, you can observe that we are changing the data declared with **const** keyword, but the catch is the rules are stricly applied to primitive data types not data structure like array. And one more thing to understand is that array declared with **const** keyword cannot be re-define.

## Some Basic Array methods

1. Array.length: returns the length of the array.
2. Array.push('a value'): Used to append or to push at last position a value in an array.

   e.g.: <code>

   years.push(2010)
   console.log(years) //[2000,2001,2020,'2003',2010]

   </code>

   > As push is a function which returns a value, therefore Array.push() returns a value which is the length of the new Array.

3. Array.pop(): Used to pop last value from an array.
   > Pop method returns the value which is removed from the array.
4. Array.unshift('a value'): Used to add element at the beginning of an array.
5. Array.shift(): Used to remove the element at the beginning of an array.
6. Array.indexOf('a element '): Used to find the index of the element passed as argument.
   > If the element is not present, then it returns **-1**.
7. Array.includes('a element'): Returns true if the element is present or false if it is not.
   > Includes do the strict equality comparison inside the array and the argument passed.
