# Data Types

In Javascript, every value is either an object or primitive value.

---

## Primitive Types

Javascript has 7 primitive types:

1. Number: Floating point number (Used for decimals and integers)

   <code>let age = 30</code>

2. String: Sequence of characters. Can be put then either in double quotes or in single quotes.

   <code>let firsName = 'John'</code>

3. Boolean: Logical type that can be either true or false.

   <code>let correct = true</code>

4. undefined: Value taken by variable that is not yet defined ('empty value').

   <code>
   let name
   console.log(name)
   console.log(typeof name)

   //output: undefined undefined
   </code>

5. Null: Also means 'empty value'.

6. Symbol: Defines value that is unique and cannot be changed.

7. BigInt: Large numbers that the Number type cannot hold.

One feature of Javascript is that is has dynamic typing i.e., we do not have to manually define data type of the value stored in the variable, the types are determined automatically. Here, value has type not variable. Variables can be later assigned to different type later.

---

## Type checking

To check a type of a variable we can use **typeof** command.

<code>
let a=7
console.log(typeof a)

//output: number
</code>

## Variable reassignment

Variable can be reassigned in javascript if it is declared using let to different values or even to different data types.

## A bug regarding Null

> If you try to find the type of null data type it will return *object* not null as returned output.

<code>
console.log(typeof null)

//expected output: null
<br>
//actual output: object
</code>

This bug is never corrected due to legacy reasons.

