# Type conversion and coercion

Converting between types is one of the important feature of many programming languages.

## Type conversion

Here, we explicitly covert the type. So it is an explicit conversion.

<code>
const year='2023'; <br/>
console.log(Number(2023)+10) //output: 2033
</code>

In the above example, we convert a string to a number.

>One thing is to note is that the original value is not converted so in the above example the original value is still a string.

### Converting a number which cannot be converted to a number

What is we try to covert a value which cannot be converted to number.
Javascript will instead give NaN value since fails to give a new number.

<code>
let name='John' <br/>

console.log(Number(name)) //output: NaN
</code>

>**Note**:  The type of NaN is **number**. Means it is a invalid number but is a number nevertheless.
>
>**Note**: Javascript can only convert 2-3 type means we can covert to string, number but not to null, undefined and also to booleans(they behave in special way).

## Type coercion

It happens when a operator is dealing with two different types. Javascript behind the string will convert the type.

<code>
console.log('I am '+ 20 +' years old.') <br/>
console.log('23'-'10'-3) //output: 10
</code>

In the above example it will covert number **20** to string and then concatenate them.

Another example: <code>let n='1'+1<br/> n = n-1<br/> console.log(n) //output: 10</code>

>Note: If not used properly type coercion can introduce bugs in code so it is necessary to understand how type coercion works.